---
layout: post
title:  "Yichen Wang Oral PhD Presentation: Beyond Mapping"
---
 
- Date: Tuesday 8 April 2025
- Time: 11:00am
- Venue: N101 Seminar Room, Ground Floor, Skaidrite Darius Building 108.

![]({% link assets/artificial-friends-min.jpg %})

PhD researcher Yichen Wang will present her Oral Presentation on Tuesday 8
April 2025 at 11:00am in N101 Seminar Room, Ground Floor Skaidrite Darius
Building 108. All welcome! 

**Title:** Beyond Mapping: Exploring Spatial Musical Interface Design with Augmented Reality

**Abstract:**
 
In recent years, emerging technologies have driven new possibilities for
musical performance, collaboration, and co-creativity. Spatial musical
interfaces, in particular, have gained attention as a way to shape and enhance
musical experiences through head-mounted augmented reality (AR) systems. In
digital musical instrument design, the “mapping” has long served as a
foundational framework for systematically connecting user actions to sonic
outcomes.  While this approach offers clarity and precision, it can also
restrict creative exploration by imposing rigid structures on performance and
limiting the dynamic relationship between performers, audiences, and
technology. Spatial interfaces, particularly those enabled by head-mounted AR
systems, present a promising avenue to address these constraints, introducing
new forms of embodied engagement and collaboration that expand our conception
of mapping.
 
In this presentation, I will discuss three projects that progressively explore
spatial musical interfaces in augmented reality. These projects include: a
first-person musician experience (cube), collaborations with other musicians
(arMIDI), and musical co-creation with an intelligent agent (off-the-shelf).
Together, these projects highlight the evolving interplay between human and
digital elements, illustrating how AR can foster novel audio experiences and
enhance musical interaction.
 
By examining these projects, this research contributes new insights into
spatial musical interface design, demonstrating how AR enriches established
mapping practices. In doing so, it also reflects on emerging perspectives that
emphasise fluid relationships between performers, technology, and creative
expression, supporting human creativity in diverse contexts.
